But today, we're talking about Kerberoes.
So we'll do a very quick
overview of what Kerberoes is,
how it works,
the internal infrastructure,
the new features we're adding
to Kerberoes and Panther,
and how you can add Kerberoes
to your application.
We will do a question and
answer period at the end,
and we'll want to know whether or
not you're a user or developer.
So what is Kerberoes?
It's a secure network
authentication system.
One of the things that is worthwhile to
understand is that there is a difference
between authentication and authorization.
We have an authorization
lab down on the first floor.
I encourage you that if you're
interested in doing authorization
or rights management on Mac OS X,
that you go check out the lab
and talk to the folks there.
We've got a really good
auth system on the Mac.
Kerberoes proves who you are,
and it uses a trusted third-party
security model to do this.
Who uses Kerbero?
Well, certainly the government does,
and education.
Large corporations are
starting to use it,
and we built a lot of it into Mac OS X.
It's in Windows, of course,
but I don't really care
too much about that.
The reason that they use it is because
it factors the security problem.
It is consistent with the
central authentication goals.
It provides single sign-on.
It's ubiquitous.
crossed a variety of platforms,
including Xbox.
When they talk about having
different realms on Xbox,
we're not talking about EverQuest.
And it's time tested.
The source code is freely available.
So to talk about Kerberoes
for the Macintosh,
Marshall Vale.
Thank you, Craig.
Good morning, all.
My name is Marshall Vale.
I am the project manager of
Kerbero development at MIT.
I have a lot to talk about,
so let's get started.
First, Kerbero was developed as part of
Project Athena in the early 1980s.
Athena was a project started by MIT, DEC,
and IBM to create a ubiquitous
computing infrastructure
for an academic environment.
Of course,
when you turn in a paper as a student,
you want to prove who you are,
and thus Kerbero was developed
to solve network authentication.
Kerbero V became an
IETF-proposed standard in 1993,
and it has become very popular
in a wide variety of markets,
including the corporate market.
In the last few years,
thanks to Microsoft's use of
it as the native authentication
method in Windows 2000 and later,
and as has been announced this week,
Apple has been using Kerbero as
the single sign-on solution for
Panther and Mac OS X going forward.
There are two forms of Kerberoes
protocols in common use.
The first is Kerberoes version 4.
It was actually the original version.
It's no longer being developed,
but still in use at many other sites.
You may want to know what
happened to the other versions,
but they never really
quite got out of the lab.
The current version is Kerberoos v5.
It was designed to solve many
of the security deficiencies and
other problems in Kerberoos 4.
Now let's take a look at some of the
Kerbero terms so we have an understanding
of what we're talking about.
First is a realm.
The realm is an administrative
unit protected by a KDC,
or key distribution center.
A ticket is the base
authentication token in Kerbero.
Different types of tickets
exist for different purposes.
They have a finite
lifetime as they expire.
They're also known as credentials,
and I may use tickets and
credentials interchangeably.
So let's take a look at
specific types of tickets.
One is a ticket granting ticket,
or a TGT.
It's the initial ticket that grants
permission to get service tickets.
You can sort of think of it as
your all amusement park pass.
The service ticket is a
ticket that authenticates a
user to a particular service,
such as FTP, email, whatnot.
I'll take a look at a couple of
the terms a little more in depth.
A realm looks similar to an
internet domain to a user.
For example, at MIT,
we have athena.mit.eu.
It defines your namespace.
All your user names have to avoid
collision within that realm.
Unlike DNS, which causes some
consternation with folks,
a Kerberoos realm is, in fact,
case sensitive.
You can exchange keys
between different realms,
and a realm can support any
combination of v4 and v5.
An organizational recommendation is
to have as few realms as possible,
and for those folks who may be setting
up Kerberoos for the first time,
it's not best to do it
along political boundaries.
You should, at best, have one.
Your users will be thankful for it.
Now, a ticket-granting ticket is
also called an initial ticket.
It's the first ticket you get.
It proves that the client is
allowed to get tickets for
other particular services.
It acts as a substitute for a password,
and it's the mechanism by
which single sign-on behavior
for the user is achieved.
Now, as I mentioned,
the tickets are only valid
for a limited period of time,
but TGTs can, in fact, be renewed.
So let's look at a simple
TGT request exchange.
First, the client sends a
TGT request to the KDC.
The KDC returns a TTT and
a session key to the client
encrypted in the client's key.
Then the client uses a
one-way hash of the password,
this is where the user sits
and types their password,
to extract the TGT.
Now, at this point,
you can see that the password has not
actually traveled over the network.
Now,
I've done a bit of a simplification here.
You actually want to do something
else called pre-authentication to
make sure the exchange is secure,
but for the purposes of this session,
making it go quicker.
So what's it look like to a user?
Well, in this example, if you can see it,
the user has retrieved two TGTs,
one for v4 and one for v5.
Most of the time,
users don't actually go and they
need to investigate the tickets,
but people wonder what they look like,
and unfortunately,
we don't have any whizzy OpenGL demos
of tickets flying around.
Now, a service ticket.
Service tickets are tickets that clients
use to access a particular service,
as I said.
It contains a session key that is shared
between the client and the server and
can be used to encrypt data exchanges.
It also expires, but is not renewable.
But that's not actually that important.
TTTs take care of that for you.
So let's take a look at a
service ticket exchange.
First, the client presents the TTT to the
KDC with a request for a service ticket.
The KDC returns an encrypted
service ticket to the client.
The client uses the TGT to
extract the service ticket.
Now, at this point,
this client can authenticate to
the server in one of two ways.
One is one-way authentication,
the other is mutual authentication.
For completeness' sake,
we're going to show both,
although in all circumstances,
you really want to try to
use mutual authentication.
So in the one-way example,
the client presents the
service ticket to the server.
The server then receives the service
ticket and authenticates the client.
At this point, the client and server can
actually encrypt the data
by using the session key.
In the mutual authentication case,
the client sends the service ticket
containing the session key to the server,
just like in the one-way.
However, at this point,
it's pretty critical,
the server essentially
authenticates back to the client.
It returns a response encrypted with
session key from the service ticket,
authenticating the server to the client.
It's very important that all the paths,
all the servers and clients in the
machine are authenticating to each other.
Thus,
the trust relations are established.
The server should also use session
key to encrypt the subsequent traffic,
just like in the one-way
authentication example.
That was an example in the abstract
case of how Kerbero fundamentally works.
Now let's take a look at a more
specific example for the application
developers so you can get an idea of
how to add it to your application.
In this case,
we're going to look at IMAP because
it has a number of good standards
and source code is out there
for looking at as an example.
So IMAP uses SASSL,
a simple authentication
and security layer,
for its negotiation of
authentication methods.
SASSL will imply the use of the GSS API,
which I'll get into a little bit later,
for accessing Kerbero S5.
And then eventually the
authentication tokens that are
passed around are Base64 encoded.
So let's see how the negotiation happens.
SASSL
First, the client sends a request to the
server asking what its capabilities are.
In this case, the server listed it, hey,
I do GSS, amongst many other things.
Client says, I want to do GSS.
Server sends back a simple,
let's go ahead,
and then the client sends the Kerberoos
authenticator as part of a GSS API token.
The server then sends mutual
authentication response as
part of another GSS API token,
thus the client and server
authenticating to each other.
The client responds with
a simple acknowledgement.
At this point, the server sends back
some security options,
including buffer size, more importantly,
whether encryption should be used.
The client then, at this point,
actually is sending in who it wants
to log in as and selects encryption.
The server sends back whether the
client was in fact authorized and
whether encryption was selected.
Notice that Kerbero was doing
authenticating of the user,
whereas at this point the server is
now actually doing the authorization of
whether the user can actually log in.
And it's using a different
mechanism other than Kerbero,
as Craig said,
is refactoring the problems.
So some points to remember
about connecting to a service.
After all this negotiation is done,
your base protocol and the example
IMAP will proceed as normal.
However,
encryption will protect the data stream.
You can use the session keys to
negotiate your actual encryption keys.
So essentially, as a byproduct of the
Kerbero authentication,
you can get encryption.
All these ticket exchanges
that I just presented,
all the arrows going back and forth,
are basically invisible to the user.
The connecting to the service is
essentially automatic for them.
They don't need to type in the
password when they're connecting to
an IMAP or FTP server or whatnot.
These negotiations, Kerbero's features,
are often all automatically.
This is sort of the behavior for the
end user to get the single sign-on.
They're entering their password once
when they're logging into the system,
and they don't have to
enter it anywhere else.
Hence, single sign-on.
What do service tickets look like?
Well, in this example,
the user is logged into
a variety of services,
including a v4 service and
a variety of v5 services.
To the user,
they just launched a bunch of apps.
They don't even know that this app
is v4 based or this one is v5 based.
To them, they just launched the
app and got their data,
and all this authentication happened for
them behind the scenes automatically.
So let's take a look at some
Kerbero infrastructure examples.
This will be quickly going
over some KDC setups,
including MIT,
MIT KDC with Active Directory,
and Apple KDC, and then some general
KDC recommendations.
I know a lot of folks are just looking
in at deploying Kerbero at their sites,
so we thought it was a good idea
to go over some of these points.
Now, an MIT stock KDC from the
MIT distribution provides best support
for a wide cross-platform environments,
from older clients to current clients.
It provides flexibility
for special deployments,
such as AFS, the Andrew File System.
However, and we'll be honest here,
it's a wee bit complex to manage,
configure, build, install.
But that's why source code's available.
But a lot of people are really
interested in Active Directory.
And a lot of people are interested in
putting Active Directory with their
existing MIT KDC infrastructure.
So I'll briefly show a little bit of
how you can possibly lay this out.
By no means is this the only way.
There's only one way you can lay it out.
But this is a little example.
We get asked this question quite a bit.
First, why would you do it?
Well, it provides good support
for Windows integration.
There's a cross-domain trust between the
Windows Active Directory and the MIT KDC.
Now, an important,
interesting point here is
that if you have two MIT KDCs,
you can exchange keys between them,
and users can use what's called
cross-realm authentication.
However, that doesn't actually imply
trust between the realms,
whereas Windows Active Directory actually
has an important concept of trust
between its multiple domains.
So when you actually set up
Active Directory and MIT KDC to
communicate with each other,
there's an implicit relationship
of trust between the realms.
Thank you.
Now, in this example,
the MIT KDC will contain the
canonical list of user accounts
and the host keys for the
non-Windows machines and services.
There are mappings of the user
accounts in MIT KDC to the accounts
in the Active Directory domain.
So, just a quick little diagram.
You can see that the trust
relationship exists between the
MIT KDC and the Active Directory,
and that's where the
account mapping happens.
A user would authenticate to the
MIT KDC and then get information
automatically out of Active Directory.
The non-Windows application
services are stored,
the host keys are stored in the MIT KDC,
and the Windows-specific
application services information
is stored in the Active Directory.
Now, as you may have heard in
Dave O's session on Tuesday,
Apple is introducing a
KDC and Panther server.
Why might you want to use it?
Well, unlike the MIT KDC,
it's easy to set up and configure.
You probably didn't even know you
actually installed it once you've
gone through the setup assistant.
It takes advantage of
Apple's open directory.
So if you're setting up an infrastructure
for the first time in a small site,
you get a nice directory with it.
An interesting implementation detail
of the Panther server is that the
password server actually contains the
Kerbero keys and other passwords for
the legacy clients to connect to it.
Now, in this case,
for Panther Server KDC,
the machines talk to the directory
to get Kerbero's configuration
information automatically.
And then, of course,
machines will talk to the Apple KDC for
their Kerbero authentication.
General KDC recommendations no
matter which KDC you're setting up.
Use triple DES with an
extra P for extra security,
and RC4 instead of DES keys.
DES,
probably that G5 that they introduced,
you can crack DES faster
than you can throb a button.
Set the pre-auth required
flag on an user principles.
That helps secure the
actual TGT exchange.
Run as few other services
as possible on your KDC.
You don't want these other
services to have vulnerabilities
that compromise your KDC data.
Avoid Kerberos 4 as much as
possible and at all costs.
I'll get into that a little bit later.
Deploy client configuration
files with as few,
as little specific
information as possible.
This allows you to take advantage
of new encryption-level features
that we add into Kerberos.
You deploy the libraries
and deploy the new KDCs,
then the clients can
take advantage of that.
When settings are explicitly set,
that usually overrides the new
functionality and new security level.
And of course, securely back up your KDC,
And that is left up as
an exercise to the user.
Now, I don't normally go into
distributed file systems,
but due to some recent
issues with Kerbero4,
we thought it was
warranted discussing it.
Andrew File System is a
popular distributed file
system used by many sites.
I mention it because it uses Kerbero4
as its fundamental authentication.
There's been a number of improvements
to AFS and to MIT Kerbero4 to allow
the use of v5 to do as much of
the authentication as possible.
You can get a new v5 AK log from MIT.
The URL is above, mit.edu.
You should run a Kerbero4 on your KDC,
Kerbero4D.
And you should only use
Kerbero4 for the AFS principle,
and do not globally
enable v4 for all users.
Now, at this point,
we'll talk a little bit
about Kerberos for Macintosh,
the Kerberos implementation in Mac OS X.
Now in Jaguar,
we shipped the first full featured client
version of Kerberoos in a Mac OS X.
And we're really excited about it.
We included KFM 4.5.
We managed to ship with Apple a
Kerberoos ticket management application,
Kerb 5.1.2.6,
number of performance enhancements,
improvements to the
command line utilities,
and 5 to 4.
And thanks to bug reports
that you filed in 10.2.3,
we shipped KFM 4.5.1.
And most people didn't even notice.
But a few people did.
So we're happy.
Now at Panther,
we're introducing Kerberoos
from Macintosh 5.0.
And we've included a real
host of nice new features.
Most importantly is Kerbero's v5.1.3.
It includes a number of improved
Windows interoperability features.
We have a new Kerbero's login
dialog that fits in better with
Mac OS X authorization dialogs.
We have a UI for getting
address list tickets,
so Kerbero 5 will work
better behind a NAT,
and we all know NATs are out there.
We have DNS support for KDC lookups.
And we have renewable ticket
granting ticket support.
On the server side,
we actually now include
all the server components.
A standard stock MIT KDC is included,
and related daemons.
And the common tools
to operate an MIT KDC,
K-Admin and KDUtil.
We have many requests for those.
And of course,
I'll also plug that Apple includes a more
integrated KDC as part of Panther Server,
but you have your choice.
You can take an MIT stock KDC,
or you can use the Panther Server KDC.
So let's take a look at the Kerberos
for Macintosh 5 architecture.
It's a little different than
Kerberos and other implementations.
First, we have the application layer
and standard Mac OS applications.
They access the Kerberos
libraries directly.
Now, for command line applications,
they actually go through symlinks and
userlib to access the main Kerberos
libraries in the system directory.
In Jaguar, if you were compiling stuff,
you needed to install
the BSD SDK headers,
the dev tools,
which was turned off by default,
although it looks like Apple has
fixed that with Panther.
And that stymied a number of people
reporting their applications.
We also have support for
CFM Carbon applications through
CFM Shub libraries that MIT distributes.
In the system directory in
Mac OS X contains the Kerbero framework.
It has a library file containing
all the various Kerbero libraries,
and plus many others not listed.
And different than Kerbero and other
environments is the C cache server.
It contains the tickets in memory,
and it uses Mac IPC to communicate
with the Kerbero library.
Lastly,
we have the Kerberoos login server.
This is the actual component
that presents the Kerberoos
login dialogue for you,
and it communicates with the
Mac IPC to the Kerberoos framework.
A lot of people think that's actually
a part of the Kerberoos application,
but it's actually stored in
the Kerberoos framework itself.
So the Curb 4 included in KFM includes
the KClient API compatibilities,
just like on Jaguar Kerberos.
However,
a significant change we've made is
that the Curb 4 library comes from
the v4 compatibility library in
the stock MIT Curb 5 distribution.
We previously had based it
on a separate library from
an older Cygnus distribution.
So now more of the platforms
in the MIT Kerberos code
share the same v4 library.
Now, applications can use either
KClient or the straight v4
APIs for their v4 support.
However,
new code shouldn't be developed using v4.
Why, you might ask?
Well, it only supports DES.
As we know,
DES isn't very secure these days.
You cannot get addressless
tickets if it's not part of v4.
tickets do not support a variety
of various feature flags,
such as forwarding.
Microsoft has no native support
in their Windows products for v4,
so that makes integration
components much more difficult.
Oh,
and there's this little teensy problem
that there's some fundamental problems
with the protocol and encryption level.
If you really want to go read up the fun,
there's the cert vulnerabilities
that we released a few months ago.
Kerberoos v4 is pretty
much dead and busted.
So, but there is a solution,
and I'll give everyone one guess.
Kerberoos 5.
So everyone really should
be migrating to Kerberoos 5.
And in KFM 5.0, as I said,
we have Kerberoos 5.1.3.
An enhancement is that we have
support for the current IETF draft
of Kerberoos clarifications.
We also include the GSS APIs,
application level API, for accessing the
Kerberoos functionality.
Let's take a look at some of
the features of v5.1.3 in depth.
As I said, we have improved
Microsoft Windows interoperability.
That specifically means we've
added TCP support for communication
in the client libraries and KDC.
We have support for
the RC4 crypto system.
And we have support to the
Microsoft set password protocol.
We've also added improved
support for IPv6.
We could use a lot of
help testing this out,
so get your Panther seeds and try it out.
We have initial AES support.
Now it's not complete,
and we're still working with
Microsoft to define some of
the standards for AES support,
but Mac OS X Panther may be one of
the first out of the gate with AES.
We also now have support for
building on pure Darwin systems.
If you do this, you'll get a stock
UNIX Curb 5 installation,
but we know a few people out there
like to run on pure Darwin systems,
so we now have support from that.
and of course many bug fixes
and future improvements from
previous Curb5 releases.
We get asked this all the time.
In fact, before the keynote,
we got asked this question,
do you interoperate with Microsoft?
So yes, Active Directory can be used as
a Curb5 KDC to a Mac OS X client,
Kerberoos clients.
Windows also has a GSS mechanism
called Simple and Protected
GSS API negotiation mechanism,
Spanego.
However, unfortunately,
it doesn't have a public counterpart
on Mac OS X right now in Panther,
but we are trying to work on
it with a variety of vendors.
Also, there's SSPI,
an application interface
that Windows promotes.
Fortunately, it's very similar to GSS.
Microsoft even publishes a document,
which we reference later in the session,
to help you map the APIs.
If you're writing as a Macintosh
developer and you want to
perhaps port over onto Windows,
you should write to GSS,
and you should hopefully
be able to move it,
create a shim layer to
write on top of SSPI.
As I mentioned,
TCP and RC4 support are there.
Now,
going back to the architecture slide,
the credentials cache,
the tickets on Kerberoes from
Macintosh are stored in memory.
This allows us to be more flexible
in how we manage our tickets,
supporting multiple credentials
in multiple realms more easily.
The Kerberoos login library is
unique to Kerberoos from Macintosh,
and it simplifies getting both
v4 and v5 initial tickets.
You can get and acquire and destroy
the initial tickets with a single call.
It provides an API for programmers
to change the settings that come
up in the Kerberoos login dialogue,
if you want.
And it mostly is used by sort
of administrative apps or those
that are trying to do sort of
login behavior on the Macintosh
and perform actions on TGTs.
Other libraries that are also provided
include ComAir for error handling and
Profile library for reading elements
out of the Kerberoes configuration file,
such as your default realms and whatnot.
The Kerberoos application is an
end user application for obtaining,
getting information, destroying tickets.
It also provides UI for setting things
such as the Kerberoos login dialogue
defaults in your favorite realm.
Also, the dock icon presents information
to the user about the status
of the Kerberoos tickets,
when they expire, and a dock menu.
If the user holds down the mouse button,
they'll see a menu of actions they
can perform on the Kerberoos tickets.
People often ask about
a menu in the menu bar.
However, the menu is already provided
in the Kerberoos application.
For KFM 5.0,
we've included a number of new
features in the Kerberoos application,
including editing the settings
for the new login dialog defaults,
improved performance and appearance.
Now you get your blurry text.
Enter realms for DNS in
your favorite realms.
New time ranges for setting
renewable ticket options.
And even more importantly,
while it's running,
it will auto-renew your
TGTs when applicable.
When you get the renewable TGTs,
if KerberoSAP is running,
then it will automatically
renew your tickets.
However, if you put the machine to
sleep and your tickets expire,
you cannot renew expired tickets.
But if you're on a
36-hour coding marathon,
you don't have to enter
your password at all.
KerberoSAP will keep
auto-renewing your tickets.
So let's take a look at the
new Kerberoos login dialog.
As you can see,
we've changed it to look more like
the standard Mac OS X authentication
authorization dialog.
It even tells you which
applications requesting
Kerberoos access-- in this case,
Mail App is trying to do
Kerberoos authentication.
You can also see the Realm field
is now in editable text,
so you can better support with
the DNS lookup of the KDC Realm.
If you show options, and this may be a
little difficult to see,
we've expanded the dialog,
and you can see there's a checkbox
for the address list tickets,
so it's no longer hidden
in a configuration file,
and you can configure how long you
want your tickets to be renewable for.
So, now there are some changes
in Panther Kerberoes that
you should be aware of.
First, due to the change in the
application framework that we're
using for the login dialog,
the login dialog's password field has
been changed from Mac Roman to UTF-8.
Now, internet authorization in Kerberoes
passwords is one horrible mess,
and we're sorry to make
it a little bit worse.
But if a user has a password
that uses high-bit characters
in Mac Roman encoding,
they'll have difficulty logging on.
Now, you have your administrator
can reset their password,
or they can use the terminal,
change the character set,
and change the password from there.
New CFM bridge libraries
are unfortunately required,
however they are available to you
today and the new bridge libraries will
work both on Jaguar and on Panther,
so you just need to do one distribution.
Command line clients will no
longer automatically prompt
when no tickets are available.
The behavior now is identical to
on the other UNIX environments.
Kerb 5-4 authentication now requires a
valid v4 configuration to be available.
Jaguar would always try 5-4,
and that was a problem
for a number of sites.
And sudo and su will now
get an empty ticket cache,
not have access to the logged-in user's
cache due to changes in interoperating
with the new security server.
Let's take a look at
developing for Kerbero.
How do you Kerberos your application?
Well, it's kind of easy.
Well, hopefully.
Find the protocol specification, RFCs,
whatnot.
To bring which API to use,
if you had to add some support for v4,
you could use KClient or
GSS API or Kerberoos 5,
depending on the application's need.
And you figure out how to
connect the API to the protocol.
This means that the data returned
by the various APIs needs to
be solidified in some form that
the base protocol understands.
Typically, this is base 64.
Take a quick look at Kerberizing FTP,
because it has a couple of nice
RFCs defining how it works.
One for v4 and one for GSS and K5.
You would use, in this case,
KClient API for v4 support
and GSS for Kerber5.
I'm skipping the v4 point,
because we're not supporting v4 anymore,
right?
Right?
Yeah.
So GSS API.
First, you start with some session
management and authentication.
I've done through GSS in its set context.
You do some base encryption and
decryption of the data stream
through GSS wrap and GSS unwrap.
And the way, as an example,
to connect the API to the
protocol is through base64.
Let's look a little bit more in
GSS API programming in depth,
the basics.
Now GSS exchanges are messages
and things called tokens.
At the beginning of the program,
GSS exchanges context tokens
to perform the authentication
and to set up the encryption.
Later,
the program actually calls GSS-Wrap
and GSS-Unwrap to do the encryption
and decryption of the application data.
In general, to hammer the point home,
all application data should be encrypted.
There are a number of applications out
there that still just do authentication,
and our users tend to think that
even all the data stream is still
encrypted when they're using Kerberoes,
and we need to make sure
all the applications are,
in fact, encrypting the data.
Users like security.
Application choices.
Applications must select
GSS API security services that they want.
Most applications want to explicitly
turn on the following features:
integrity protection, confidentiality,
replay detection, and sequencing.
They're not as scary as they sound.
GS SAPI also provides a
facility to forward credentials
from one system to another.
Now the program flow of GSS programming
essentially requires multiple
round trips for authentication,
potentially.
An application does not necessarily
know how many round trips are
going to be required ahead of time.
So the application loops,
waiting for the authentication to finish.
So let's take a look
at the GSS client loop.
The input token, you set it up,
set it to null.
You then go into a do loop
with GSS and NetSec context.
If the output token is there,
then you send the output token.
And then you check the major status,
GSS status.
If you continue as needed,
you essentially continue doing the loop.
On the server side,
you sit there looping,
trying to receive a GSS token.
With CSS Accept SecContext.
If it's there, you send a response back.
And you check to see whether
continuation is needed.
And if it is,
you continue looping in the do
loop to receive all of the data.
So Kerberizing suggestions
for developers.
Use Sassl if you're adding Kerberos
to your own proprietary protocol.
That'll help handle a lot
of the negotiations of the
various authentication methods
you have available to you,
not just Kerberos, but other ones.
Using Zassal includes using GSS API for
your Kerber-5 functionality.
The GSS API helps isolate applications
from differences in the Curb-5 APIs.
The Curb-5 APIs actually
aren't any real standard,
and different implementations
have different API semantics.
So GSS is actually an RFC C-binding,
so that helps make your application
more portable to different environments.
Again, to drive home, point home,
do not add additional v4 support.
At this point, v4 is very insecure,
and we need to make sure
everyone's migrating off to v5.
So in summary,
as was mentioned in other sessions,
Kerbero is simply a powerful solution
to authentication and single sign-on.
Provides an unobtrusive
authentication experience to the user.
It's available on a wide
variety of platforms.
Site should be moving from Kerbero.
Have I gotten the point across?
Panther and Panther Server will
provide a wealth of Kerberide services.
And Apple, as has been mentioned
in a previous session,
is committing very heavily to Kerberos.
And they will be driving
adoption of Kerberos throughout
their operating systems.
If you need to report a bug
about Kerberoos in Mac OS X,
since there are so many people,
his family is very large,
report the bugs to Apple.
It's nice,
we like to hear from the bugs at MIT,
however, in order to get your bugs
fixed and back in the OS,
they need to be filed at Apple.
If you feel that your bug
is not getting attention,
please bring the issue up with Apple.
They're the ones who ship it,
so if you need to get it
into a software update,
you need to raise the issue
with your Apple representative.
So to wrap up, here's the roadmap.
Most of these sessions
have already happened.
However, there's a security
feedback forum on Friday.
You can contact Craig or
myself or also Skip Levens,
who is the server technology evangelist,
and a lot of his folks are doing
a lot of the Kerbero integration.
For more information,
we have a variety of URLs.
The documentation that's available
for MIT is in a couple of places.
And all these URLs are
available from Apple.
Apple has a knowledge base article
about Kerberoos and Jaguar.
And Microsoft has a number of
interoperability web pages,
including frequently asked questions.
There are a number of RFCs
you might want to look at,
like IMAP authentication mechanisms is a
great example of how to use SASL and GSS.
A lot of people don't know this,
but we actually did publish the
source code as much as we could,
legally allowed,
to Kerberoos for Macintosh 451 in Jaguar.
It's on the Darwin Kerberoos page,
and that's available under
the developer site at Apple.